Work in progress experimental version of the boating modlet now at Version 8 for V1.0

Launch
Place the boat on/in water in a 'shallow water' area, if you have no shallow water in your map then build a small launch dock, then add fuel to boat.

Controls
Steering is A and D as per vanilla settings ....the mouse is for looking around only and has no affect on steering a boat.

W is forwards and S is slow down/reverse ..If you let go of w and shift (Turbo) then the boat slowly comes to a stop, pressing s will slow the boat down
more quickly this replaces spacebar as the brake key.

**** IMPORTANT INFO For this Version ****

Space bar and c no long control the tilt angle ...pressing them will make boat bob up and down in this version,  XML has changed to self levelling method.
If you hit a water bank or object in the water the boat will tilt but can now be corrected by simply turning left or right and circle round a bit.

To anchor boat and stop it drifting away just slow down come to a halt and the self levelling xml should bring you to a fixed position,  useful if you have a fishing mod installed  (Experimental method .

Other Info
Boats can be picked up into inventory, if you sink it at any point, although be careful if you sink
it too far away from the shores as it could be a long swim back.

Crafting
The Boats are craftable in a standard workbench with no progression needed as the boats are intended as an early game version at the cost of resources and actually finding a working workbench early in the game would be a bonus and allow you to make the boats a lot sooner. 
The recipe is simple and uses in game resources.

If anyone wants to change the recipes and build methods then please do so but let me know how you improved it.

Modlet Updates Changelog:

Version 8
1. Redone seating xml for new player poses (modlet not backwards compatible with A21)
2. Changed boats to new use self levelling code

Version 7
1. Particles (water effects) now start when boat is moving.
2. Set up xml for A21 requirments (modlet not backwards compatible with A20)
3. Slight adjustments to physics in A21 and boat height in water.
4. Adjusted seating positions a bit more from A20 offering. 

Version 6
1. Re-scaled /resized both boats for A20 
2. Added vehicle mods options - Cosmetic, Fuel Saver, Tank Size  (vehicle speed is fixed so that mod does not affect boats and there is no Light mod option as boats have no lights)
3. Flatboat has 3 seats ( Two fixed and 1 extra via the seat mod option )
4. Dinghy now has two seats ( 1 fixed and 1 via seat mod Option)
5. Added support to be able to fish from both boats with Telrics A20 Fishing Mod https://7daystodiemods.com/telrics-fishing-2-0/
6. Slight adjustments to physics in A20 and boat height in water
7. Boats now have compressed textures for further optimization
8. Particle system is now fixed when entering the boat vehicle 

Version 5
1. Texture settings adjusted
2. Re-scaled /resized both boats
3. Added decorative cooler box to flat bottomed boat
4. Depth masks applied to boats to stop water seeping effect and allow boats to ride lower in water
   for more realism effect.
5. Particle system added ...this can be toggled via the 'F' key (headlight function)
6. Added 'drag' colliders to bottom of boats to counter land use. Boats will stick in ground and steering is compromised
7. Added Localisation file
8. Added working propellers

Version 4
1. Fixed momentum and now boats will slowly come to a halt and stop ... they stop quicker with pressing the S key 
2. Both boats can anchor in water just make sure boats are level in the water using c or spacebar and they wont
   drift away ...useful for fishing mods and the like.
3. Fixed placing in water .. boats were slow to come to surface.
4. Boat stabilty improved and stopped the random sinking when tilted too much.
5. Added a second seat to the flat bottomed boat.
6. Adjusted turn rates and speeds to more suitable levels (subjective). 

Version 3 
Fully updated to A18 compatible xml physics and boats now placeable in water.

Version 2
Fixed exit position thanks to DUST2DEATH for the info on his APC exit co-ordinates ... 


Additional credits : ActiniumTiger for new texture for dingy .

Models are purchased and you are not allowed to extract or alter in anyway.

More to come !

Happy Boating in V1.0

Ragsy !!
Reminder: This mod does not change water blocks at all, so its going to be just add the xml modlet and off you go/float.
And as per usual with mods that add new models both client and server would need the mod.

Ragsy !!

 

